that's getting in to people uh who need
it um with regard to uh humanitarian
pauses again we see this as a way of
further
facilitating uh the ability to get
assistance in uh to make sure that the
um resources are in place as well to
absorb the the assist the assistance
coming in to make sure that it um gets
to the people uh who need it uh we see
it uh as a way also and and and very
importantly of creating a better um U
environment in which hostages uh can be
uh released uh and this is a very
important piece uh so as I mentioned
already and I won't uh I won't repeat it
there are a number of very important uh
practical questions that go along with
this uh that uh We've agreed to uh to
discuss and work on uh We've agreed that
our teams will continue to uh to talk
about this uh in the days ahead um and
uh from our perspective this can be be
uh a critical way to advance many of the
interests that I uh that I discussed
earlier um I haven't seen the details
about the um the the strike G on that
you alluded to
that hit the AFP office in Gaza uh and
let me just say and and say again that
as we stand strongly uh for Israel's
right and obligation to defend itself uh
we also believe that it's vitally
important how Israel does this uh
including with the highest regard for
the protection of civilians and that of
course includes journalists journalists
who are doing extraordinary work under
the most dangerous conditions to tell
this story to the world something that
we deeply admire deeply respect and we
want to make sure that uh they're
protected the next question goes to
Karen betel with Channel
12 thank you uh thank you SEC secretary
B for for being here uh two issues kasan
asala the Secretary General of kisala is
talking right now if uh following his
speech or his remark um another front
will open in the north will the US
actually use its fire power in the
region not only to deter but also to
destroy Target in Lebanon or if needed
in
Iran and on the hostages um uh the Biden
Administration is asking Israel for
attemp temporary pose and we understand
it is not a ceas fire but uh do you have
any guarantees any assurances that this
temporary pause will lead to hostage
release and I know you have heard the
family of the hostages today outside the
the
kabas and if May I a can you assure us
that uh the United States will not hold
Israel back before the main objective of
this war will fulfill which is
eliminating Hamas thank you thank you uh
let me take the second question first
um there are no guarantees about
anything as a general proposition and
maybe even more specifically uh in the
context of um the uh the fight against
Hamas but uh we
are absolutely focused on getting
hostages back and getting them back to
their families in safety and we believe
that among other things uh a
humanitarian pause could uh help that
effort uh could facilitate it it's one
of the reasons why uh we're focused on
it uh but regardless our determination
uh to get uh get people back um
is manifested every single day in our
efforts to to do uh to do just that and
as I said and said repeatedly and as
President Biden has said and said
repeatedly We Stand strongly with with
and behind Israel in its right and
obligation to defend itself defend its
people and take the steps necessary to
try to ensure that this never happens
again uh nothing nothing has changed and
that won't
change
um with uh with regard to
um Lebanon with regard to um Hezbollah
with regard to
Iran we have been very clear from the
outset that we are determined that there
not be a second or third front opened in
this conflict um President Biden said on
day one to anyone thinking of opening a
second front taking advantage of the
situation
don't and we backed up those words uh
not only with work that we've done with
many partners in the region to reinforce
that message but with practical Deeds
including the deployment of uh two
aircraft carriers uh battle groups uh to
the region uh including with action that
we've uh taken for example against
missiles coming from Yemen in the
direction of Israel shooting them down
uh including as well uh with strikes
that we took in response to multiple
attacks on our Personnel in Iraq and
Syria who were there as I said earlier
to try to prevent a Resurgence in the
region of of isil of Dash uh we remain
absolutely determined uh in that effort
and um I'm not going to get into
hypothetical situations but all I can
say is uh we're committed to deterring
aggression from any part um and we'll
take steps necessary to deal with it for
the next question Vivian Sal with the
Wall Street
Journal Mr secretary thank you as always
for bringing us along with you um and
your travels before we left DC um you
stressed that the US was discussing with
Israel uh the current conflict and you
added we will also be focusing on the
day after can you talk a little bit
about what that looks like um in
particular uh what is being done to
ensure that whatever does come after
doesn't spin into potentially short or
long-term occupation um and also are
there discussions at all to create a
multilateral force for Gaza and if so
would the US be willing to take part in
something like that thank you thanks
R here's what what we know and I think
is
uh agreed among uh
everyone there cannot and must not be a
return to the pre-october 7th status
quo that's unacceptable it's not
tolerable for Israel it shouldn't be
acceptable or tolerable by uh by anyone
else uh and that means that the idea of
uh Hamas remaining
responsible for governance such as it
was uh and um and security and posing an
ongoing and enduring threat to uh to
Israel and its citizens is unacceptable
so that's one thing we know we also know
that um Israel cannot reassume control
and responsibility for
Gaza and it's important to note that
Israel has made clear it has no
intention or desire to do that so within
those
parameters um we are and will continue
to have discussions with uh Partners
throughout the region and well beyond
about um what should follow um once
Hamas is
defeated uh there are a a number of uh
possibilities permutations but it's
really premature to get into uh any
detail about
that as
important
is putting this into a bigger
picture um a bigger vision of how we
achieve enduring and and Lasting peace
and Security in the region and as I said
earlier the United States is
convinced uh we have been for sometime
and I think we're only reinforced in
that
conviction uh since October 7th that the
best path maybe even the only path as I
said is through two states for two
peoples again that is the only way to
ensure lasting security for a Jewish and
Democratic Israel the only way to ensure
uh that
Palestinians uh achieve their legitimate
aspirations for a state of their own so
I think it's important as we're talking
about all of this with uh with every
partner in the region Israel um our Arab
partners and many others as well as the
broader International Community that we
have that big frame in mind and whatever
we do whatever is done also helps to
advance that so that's how we're looking
at it right now can I just press you Mr
secretary because um you're talking
about the defeat of Hamas and I'm
wondering you know for uh Hamas is not
just a bunch of individuals but probably
an ideology as well and especially with
the intense bombardment that we're
seeing in Gaza right now the potential
for extremism down the line is high and
so you know when you say defeat Hamas is
that being factored in and what are you
doing then to address those those issues
as well yeah Vivian I uh you're you're
exactly right
um this is about dealing with uh Hamas
in terms of defeating it physically that
is making sure that it can't repeat what
it did on October 7th but it is also
about defeating an idea a perverted idea
but an idea that um we have to combat
with a better idea with a better better
future with a better vision for what
that future can be and uh demonstrating
that we're committed to achieving uh
that future that Vision because in the
absence of that even after
Hamas those who sing the siren song of
nihilism will find open
ears so it's imperative in our judgment
that not only is Hamas dealt with in a
way that October 7th can never be
repeated but
that we lay out a Clear Vision and a
path to achieve that Vision that gives
people something to hope for to buy into
to grab
onto um and I believe that there is a
broad and strong Coalition throughout
the region that wants to do exactly
that all of these countries uh are are
on one side of the equation who's on the
other side of the equation Hamas
Hezbollah and
Iran so it's incumbent upon us I think
not only to to lay out that Vision but
to be clear about the ways that we
propose to to achieve it this is not
flipping a light switch needless to say
um given how Dee rooted and enduring
these uh these problems are but um there
that we have to we have to address this
and we have to address it in uh in
concrete way ways and with determination
uh because again it comes back to
exactly what you said
um we have to demonstrate that we have a
better idea and a way to achieve it for
the final question muhanad Tut of course
we've been listening to the US Secretary
of State Anthony blinking addressing the
media there in Israel after his talks
with Israeli leadership striking a
balance between emphasizing Israel's
right to defend itself uh as well as the
imperative to protect innocent
Palestinians with me in the studio is
DW's Middle East analyst shaie rosanis
shaie uh lots of talk there from the
Secretary of State about the need for
humanitarian polies he mentioned that
several times but it sounds reading
between the lines that there's still
work to be done what was your take I I
agree with you Michael they there's an
understanding that it needs to be done
there's there the moderate Arab
countries uh that are pushing for that
there's a lot of pressure in America
around the Western World we see the
number we see what's happening in Gaza
and there's also an understanding the
way Americans see it that the pause will
allow Israel to get more credibility
more time you know in order to complete
its Mission uh but we don't see any
clear indications that they have agreed
on the where and the what and the how he
himself says that uh we know it was uh
this was delayed we know it was a longer
visit and longer meetings than planned
um he still has some of his
Representatives American Representatives
staying in Israel trying to find how to
strike that balance we've seen Israeli
um announcements from Galant the for the
defense minister and netanyahu's uh
office saying we have not agreed on fuel
coming in which is a contestant issue we
will not give any pause any humanitarian
relief until we see any progress with
the hostages the way Israel tries to
keep the the equation is humanitarian
issues are our hostages you know
alongside the humanitarian needs of the
gazan population so in the last 48 hours
particularly we've been hearing a lot
the words ceasefire and humanitarian
pause please make it clear for our
viewers what's the difference between
those two and why is that Nuance so
significant for the actors in this
conflict well first of all pause is a
unilateral step you know Israel will
decide on it when how and and for how
long and can just abruptly stop it at
any minute um and a ceasefire which will
bring Hamas in that's something that is
not feasible Israel does not want to be
even seen in any way communicating to
negotiating giving up to Hamas it needs
to stay strong that's what it sends out
also in its message in the military
front um and Americans seem to be so far
willing to let Israel do that got it
that is a Shani rosanas many many
thanks that is your DW news update live
from Berlin don't forget you can always
get DW news on our website at DW I'm
Michael oku thanks for watching there's
more news right around the
[Music]
corner
what if it really is possible to reverse
aging researchers and scientists all
over the
world are in a Race Against
Time they are peers and Rivals with one
daring goal to outsmart
nature more life
watch now on YouTube DW
documentary actually we don't have a
choice I think that we have little time
left to save the planet so we have to do
whatever we can as fast as
possible we only have one generation
left just 25 years to implement the
greatest Revolution since the dawn of
the Industrial
Age replacing fossil fuels with
renewable energy around the world
without
exception is a global energy
transformation really possible and
affordable or is it all an
illusion researchers